In this lesson, we will learn how to programmatically control the volume of the Sound class. This can come in
handy in a variety of situations. As I said, we can make certain classes of sounds a little quieter,
others louder, and so on. And also in this lesson we will learn how to completely turn off the sound in the game.
We will use a functional library to manage sounds. Let's inherit from
this class for the first time. It is called BlueprintFunctionLibrary. This class
combines static families of functions that are used for various purposes. These can be
helper functions for working with strings, some kind of mathematical functions. For example, we
used GameplayStatics with you. It is also a functional library.
We will create a library of functions for working with sounds. We call it STUSoundFuncLib.
And put the class in the sound directory. Click on create class.
Don't forget to add a new PublicIncludePaths directory. Let's go to the header file of our library.
Let's create two functions in the public section.
The first function will set the volume we need for a specific Sound class.
The second function would be the switch function.
It will set the volume to 0 for the sound class if the current volume is not zero and vice versa.
We call the first function SetSoundClassVolume. It will have two parameters: the
first is a pointer to the SoundClass. In C ++, its name is USoundClass.
The second parameter is the volume to be set.
Add a forward declaration for USoundClass.
We create a second function.
It will have only one parameter - a pointer to the SoundClass. We call it ToggleSoundClassVolume. We create a body for each function.
We include the SoundClass header file.
Let's start with the SetSoundClassVolume function.
First, we check that we have a non-null pointer to the SoundClass. If zero, then exit the function.
The loudness variable is in a special structure of the Sound class called properties.
Press F12. Go to the Sound Class header file. Next F12 on the structure type.
And in the structure, we can see which variables we have access to: volume, pitch and many others.
We only need the volume parameter. We return to our function
and assign the value of our Volume parameter to the field of the Volume structure.
Volume changes from zero to one, so let's put clamp just in case.
Any value can be passed to a function, it's better to take care of that. Minimum value = 0, maximum = 1
Let's display the volume change in the log, add a macro with a log. We name our category LogSTUSoundFuncLib.
The name of the Sound class and its new volume value will be displayed in the log.
Let's program the second function. We also check the pointer first.
For convenience, let's create a local variable called NextVolume.
Let's assign it a value of 0 if the current volume value is greater than 0 and one otherwise.
And then we can use the function SetSoundClassVolume we just created.
We pass the pointer to the sound class
and the second parameter NextVolume. All is ready. The only thing - let's remove the log of our timer from game mode,
which is called every second. He will interfere with us. We compile the project.
Let's check the work of our functional library in blueprints. In the controller, let's
directly add the keypress event. In the search, you can enter the key you are interested in and the corresponding
event will appear on the blueprint graph. The toggle function is available in blueprint.
When you press the 1 key on the keyboard, we will enable / disable the sound of the character class.
When we press key 2, let's use a special node called flip-flop. It alternately
launches the nodes connected to A and B. That is, with odd clicks, node A will be called,
and with even clicks, node B. We will test the SetSoundCLassVolume function. For odd
clicks, we will set the sound volume to the weapon class to 0.1, and for even ones, to one.
Compile. And to hear better, set the volume of the sound impact class to 0. Also, increase the number of rifle cartridges.
We open the log. We start the game.
I clicked on 1.
The toggle function works.
And the SetVolume function also works. Now, in order to turn off all sound in the game, we
will need to set the volume of each sound class to 0. This is not very convenient, given that there
can be much more sound classes. The UE has the ability to customize
relationships between classes. Let's create an additional
class that we will have as the parent of all classes. Let's call it SC_Master.
Open the asset.
On the left in the details panel, there is a property called ChildClasses. This is an array for storing child sound classes.
Let's add an element. Click on the plus. We indicate, for example, the character class itself.
The corresponding nodes and also arrows appear on the graph, which lead from the master to the corresponding classes.
Add the remaining elements to the array. The Sound class master will be the parent for all of our sound classes.
As a result of this relationship, the parameters that we apply to the master class will automatically
be applied to the children as well. We can also make more complex circuits.
For example, the sound class weapon can be a child of the sound class character.
And the sound impact class can be a child of the sound class weapon. That is, the scheme can be quite complex.
And now with this tree of relations between classes, after we change the volume of the character class
, we will also change the volume of the weapon and impact classes,
because they are child classes of our character. Let's test it.
We pressed 1 and now we have no character sounds, no impact, no weapon.
Now, to completely turn on, turn off the sound, we just need to
specify the sound class master as a parameter of our toggle sound function.
Click on 1, there are no sounds. There are also no sounds in the interface. Everything works.
Let's transfer the logic of enabling and disabling sounds in C ++. This functionality may be required in different places in the program.
For example, in the game settings user interface. Add a new action to the project settings and call it mute.
We will turn on, turn off the sound when you press the M key.
One more thing. In the project settings, we can specify the default sound class
that will be set to the new SoundCue upon creation. Select the sound class master we created.
There is also a property - Default Media Sound Class. It is intended for other assets, we
will not change it now. The global logic for turning on, turning off the sound will be in GameInstance.
This class exists throughout the life of the game, so it is logical to place the functionality here.
For complex work with sound, you can create your own sound manager class and, for example, also
store a pointer to it in GameInstance. Add a forward declaration for the sound class.
We declare a public function, which we will call ToggleVolme. It will not have any parameters.
In the protected section, create a property for the master sound class. Change the category to sound.
We call the property Master Sound Class.
We create the body of the ToggleVolume function.
We can use the functional library we have created. Let's include the header file.
To enable or disable the sound, just call the ToggleSoundClassVolume function
and pass a pointer to the Master Sound Class there. Go to the header file playercontroller.
Add a function that will be called when the M key is pressed. We call it OnMuteSound.
We create the body of the function. Add a new action.
Let's include the header file GameInstance.
All we need to do in this function is to call the ToggleVolume function of the GameInstance class.
All the code is ready. Let's compile the project.
Open the game instace blueprint. We specify the property for the Master Sound Class.
We compile the blueprint, open the log and launch the game.
Press the M key, also look at the console. The volume for sound class master is zero. No sound.
This ends the lesson.